docs: Document how to ship OTEL traces (#753)
stackabletech/opa-operator: docs/modules/opa/pages/usage-guide/OpenTelemetry.adoc

= OpenTelemetry
:description: Ship OPA traces and logs to OpenTelemetry
:opa-docs: https://v1-4-2--opa-docs.netlify.app/configuration/#distributed-tracing

Opa supports sending OpenTelemetry traces as stated in {opa-docs}[the documentation].

> As at SDP 25.7, `configOverrides` are not supported.

Reviewer: Does this mean that we never supported it but will do in the future (as is suggested below, and which seems to be the case from the changelog), or that we are temporarily not supporting it (but _will_ do again at some point)?

Reviewer: Then I would make this a little clearer with e.g. something like

> SDP 25.7 still does not support `configOverrides`, but this will be addressed in a future release.

or:

> As of SDP 25.7, `configOverrides` are (still) not supported.

Author: f816d4d

To enable traces you need to modify the config and thus xref:opa:usage-guide/operations/cluster-operations.adoc[pause the reconciliation] of your OpaCluster, so that changes to the ConfigMap aren't immediately overridden by the opa-operator.

> WARNING: It's not encouraged to pause the reconciliation longer than temporary. We recommend disabling it while you debug e.g. performance problems and re.enabling it afterwards. This problem will be solved once we support configOverrides for OPA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: It's not encouraged to pause the reconciliation more than just temporarily. We recommend disabling it while you debug e.g. performance problems and re-enabling it afterwards. This problem will be solved once we support configOverrides for OPA.
```

Afterwards you can edit the `<stacklet-name>-server-default` ConfigMap and append a `distributed_tracing` section as follows.

> Please check the {opa-docs}[OPA documentation] on how other settings you can configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please check the {opa-docs}[OPA documentation] to see how you can configure other settings.
```
